#exams #M319 #theory
___
# 03.09.2024
>1. Knows the difference and purpose of problem space and solution space.  
>2. Knows tools to identify requirements in a solution-free way.  
>3. Knows the reasons for separating the problem space from the solution space   
>4. Knows a notation to represent the flow of a program logi c (e.g. structure diagram).  
>5. Knows the purpose of models and diagrams as a basis for discussion and implementation.  
>6. Knows the distinction between data types (e.g. primitive, complex).  
>7. Knows the relevant data types (e.g. integer, boolean, array with one dimension).  
>8. Knows the purpose of arrays and can use them in the program

# 17.09.24
[[Cheat-Sheet |Here is the link to my cheat sheet]]


- Problems, Solutions and Stakeholders
    - I know about the importance of and reasons for separation of problem and solution space.
    - I know different tools and methods for a solution-free identification of problems and can apply them practically.
    - Specifically, regarding user stories, I know what they are used for, what their advantages are, how they are formulated. I'm also able to use user stories as a starting point to implement an application.
    - I can create and interpret graphical representations of an algorithm in the form of structure charts.
    - I can use structure diagrams to sketch, plan and document algorithms. I am aware of the opportunities for using structure diagrams as the basis for a discussion with other programmers, customers and/or users.
- Variables and Constants
    - I can differentiate the two fundamental concepts of variables and constants.
    - I can make reasoned choices on when to use variables and constants in a program.
    - A understand the technical terms _declaration_ and _definition_ and can use them correctly.
    - I understand the concept of different, possibly nested scopes and its effect and consequences in combination with control structures and functions.
- Data Types
    - I can differentiate primitive and complex data types.
    - I know predominant primitive datatypes in C# such as byte, short, int, long, float, double, decimal, char and bool along with their specific characteristics.
    - I know string and arrays as two different but related, complex data types in C#.
    - Based on a given use case or requirement, I can make a reasoned choice for a specific data type.
    - For numeric datatypes with integer values (byte, short, int, long), I can explain the overflow on both boundaries and predict the effect or possible consequences.
    - I know about implicit and explicit type conversions, can explain the differences and show the effects using various examples.
- Arrays
    - I understand arrays in C#, typical use cases, possibilities and limitations and can use arrays accordingly in small pogramms.
    - I know different ways for defining an array with (at compile-time) known and unknown values and can decide on how to implement them in a specific scenario.
    - I can read and write specific elements of an array based on a given index and/or size of the array.
    - In C#, I understand the data type string as a read-only array of characters.
- Functions
    - I know various reasons fur using functions in a program.
    - I know how to define and call functions with or without return value as well as with a parameter list of any length.
    - I can correctly use technical terms related to functions such as head/signature, body, parameter list, arguments, return value, data type of return value (return type).
    - I can cope with different, related terms such as functions, methods or even routines, subroutenes or procedures without any need (at the moment) to further distinguish them.
- Control Structures
    - I can use the technical terms _selection_ and _iteration_ to group different constrol structures.
    - I can competently use the following control structures in C#:
        - if/else (along with else if)
        - switch
        - the ternary conditional operator ( ?: )
        - for
        - foreach
        - while
        - do-while
    - For the ternary conditional operator ( ?: ), I know typical use cases and limitations.
    - For the different types of loops I can explain the basic differences in use cases between the "for-family" (for/foreach) and the "while-family" (while/do-while).
    - Furthermore, I can also explan and illustrate the typical use cases and differences of the while and do-while loop.
    - For a spcecific scenario or requirement, I can make a reasoned choice for any of the four different loops and implement it accordingly.
- Code Quality
    - I know about the challenges and opportunities regarding code quality when developping applications - especially when done in teams.
    - I can apply various approaches to improve the quality of code I write - such as structure, comments and conventions.
    - I know three different forms of comments in C# and can apply them accordingly.
    - I know about different types of conventions for aspects like identifiers, spacing, braces or line breaks.
    - I can set break points and use the debugger to step through a sequence of statements precisely.
    - I can use at least one IDE professionally in terms of efficiency, code formatting and debugging.
    - I can understand common compiler errors and run-time errors and act accordingly.